# lineSetCallTreatment function

## Description

The
**lineSetCallTreatment** function sets the sounds a party on a call that is unanswered or on hold hears. Except for basic parameter validation, it is a straight pass-through by TAPI to the service provider.

## Parameters

### `hCall`

Handle to the call. The application must have OWNER privilege.

### `dwTreatment`

One of the call treatments supported on the address on which the call appears, as indicated by
[LINEADDRESSCAPS](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/tapi/ns-tapi-lineaddresscaps). LINEERR_INVALPARAM is returned if the specified treatment is not supported.

## Return value

Returns a positive request identifier if the asynchronous operation starts; otherwise, the function returns one of these negative error values:

LINEERR_INVALCALLHANDLE, LINEERR_INVALCALLSTATE, LINEERR_INVALPARAM, LINEERR_NOMEM, LINEERR_NOTOWNER, LINEERR_OPERATIONFAILED, LINEERR_OPERATIONUNAVAIL, LINEERR_RESOURCEUNAVAIL, LINEERR_UNINITIALIZED.

## Remarks

The use of call treatment functionality should be limited to controlling of legacy equipment. New equipment is generally designed so that instead of call treatments being generated by external switching equipment, calls would be connected to PC-based audio sources and signals generated using standard functions such as the multimedia Wave API.

## See also

[LINEADDRESSCAPS](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/tapi/ns-tapi-lineaddresscaps)

[Supplementary Line Service Functions](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/Tapi/supplementary-line-service-functions)

[TAPI 2.2 Reference Overview](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/Tapi/tapi-2-2-reference)