# lineProxyMessage function

## Description

The
**lineProxyMessage** function is used by a registered proxy request handler to generate TAPI messages related to its role. For example, an ACD agent handler can use this function to generate
[LINE_AGENTSTATUS](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/Tapi/line-agentstatus) messages that are received by all applications that have the specified line open. TAPI suppresses generation of the message on the *hLine* specified in the function parameters.

## Parameters

### `hLine`

Handle to the open line device. This is converted by TAPI into the correct *hLine* for each application that receives the message.

### `hCall`

If the message is related to a specific call (which it is not, in the case of LINE_AGENTSTATUS), specifies the proxy handler's handle to that call; shall be set to **NULL** for messages not related to a specific call. This is converted by TAPI into the correct *hCall* for each application that receives the message.

### `dwMsg`

The TAPI message to generate. This must be a message that is permitted to be generated by proxy handlers.

### `dwParam1`

Parameter associated with the message to be sent.

### `dwParam2`

Parameter associated with the message to be sent.

### `dwParam3`

Parameter associated with the message to be sent.

## Return value

Returns zero if the function succeeds or one of these negative error values:

LINEERR_INVALLINEHANDLE, LINEERR_INVALCALLHANDLE, LINEERR_INVALPARAM, LINEERR_NOMEM, LINEERR_NOTREGISTERED, LINEERR_OPERATIONFAILED, LINEERR_OPERATIONUNAVAIL, LINEERR_RESOURCEUNAVAIL, LINEERR_UNINITIALIZED.

## See also

[LINE_AGENTSTATUS](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/Tapi/line-agentstatus)

[Supplementary Line Service Functions](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/Tapi/supplementary-line-service-functions)

[TAPI 2.2 Reference Overview](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/Tapi/tapi-2-2-reference)