# _GPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS structure

## Description

The **GPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS** structure specifies a general-purpose I/O (GPIO) pin and describes the interrupt attributes of this pin.

## Members

### `BankId`

The identifier for the bank that contains the GPIO pin. If M is the number of banks in the GPIO controller, **BankId** is an integer in the range 0 to M–1. The GPIO framework extension (GpioClx) previously obtained the number of banks in the controller from the [CLIENT_QueryControllerBasicInformation](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/gpioclx/nc-gpioclx-gpio_client_query_controller_basic_information) event callback function. For more information, see Remarks in [CLIENT_CONTROLLER_BASIC_INFORMATION](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/gpioclx/ns-gpioclx-_client_controller_basic_information).

### `PinNumber`

The bank-relative pin number. If N is the number pins in this bank, *PinNumber* is an integer in the range 0 to N–1. GpioClx previously obtained the number of pins in each bank from the *CLIENT_QueryControllerBasicInformation* event callback function. For more information, see the description of the **NumberOfPinsPerBank** member in [CLIENT_CONTROLLER_BASIC_INFORMATION](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/gpioclx/ns-gpioclx-_client_controller_basic_information).

### `Flags`

A set of flags that control the configuration of the GPIO pins. No flags are currently defined for this member.

### `InterruptMode`

Whether the interrupt request from this GPIO pin is level-sensitive or edge-triggered. This member is set to one of the following values:

- **LevelSensitive**

- **Latched**

For more information, see [KINTERRUPT_MODE](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/wdm/ne-wdm-_kinterrupt_mode).

### `Polarity`

Whether the interrupt line from this GPIO pin is active-high or active-low. This member is set to one of the following values:

- **InterruptActiveHigh**

- **InterruptRisingEdge**

- **InterruptActiveLow**

- **InterruptFallingEdge**

- **InterruptActiveBoth**

For more information, see [KINTERRUPT_POLARITY](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/wdm/ne-wdm-_kinterrupt_polarity).

### `PullConfiguration`

Whether this GPIO pin is pulled up or pulled down. This member is typically set to one of the following system-defined constants:

- **GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_PULLDEFAULT**

- **GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_PULLUP**

- **GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_PULLDOWN**

- **GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_PULLNONE**

If none of these constants appropriately describes the pin configuration, this member can be set to a vendor-defined constant in the range 128-255. For more information about these constants, see [GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION]().

### `DebounceTimeout`

The debounce time in units of 10 microseconds. For example, a debounce time of 5.84 milliseconds is specified as 584. The debounce time is the time required for an input signal to stabilize at a high level after the start of a low-to-high transition, or at a low level after the start of a high-to-low transition. For example, if an interrupt signal is generated by a mechanical switch, the debounce time is the time required for the metal contact in the switch to stop bouncing after the switch is turned on or off.

### `VendorData`

A pointer to a caller-allocated buffer that contains vendor-defined data for this GPIO pin. This member is optional and is set to NULL if no vendor-defined data is available. For more information about vendor-defined data, see the description of the *GPIO connection descriptor* in the [ACPI 5.0 specification](https://uefi.org/specifications).

### `VendorDataLength`

The size, in bytes, of the data buffer that is pointed to by the **VendorData** member.

## Remarks

The [CLIENT_EnableInterrupt](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/gpioclx/nc-gpioclx-gpio_client_enable_interrupt) and [CLIENT_UnmaskInterrupt](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/gpioclx/nc-gpioclx-gpio_client_unmask_interrupt) event callback functions use a **GPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS** structure to specify a GPIO pin and to describe the interrupt attributes of this pin.

The **GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_*XXX*** constants specify whether a general-purpose I/O (GPIO) pin is pulled up or pulled down.

```cpp
#define GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_DEFAULT (0x0)
#define GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_PULLUP (0x1)
#define GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_PULLDOWN (0x2)
#define GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_NONE (0x3)
```

The **PullConfiguration** member of the **GPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS** structure is set to a **GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_*XXX*** constant.

If none of the system-defined **GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_*XXX*** constants appropriately describes the pin configuration, this member can be set to a vendor-defined constant in the range 128 to 255.

## See also

[CLIENT_CONTROLLER_BASIC_INFORMATION](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/gpioclx/ns-gpioclx-_client_controller_basic_information)

[CLIENT_EnableInterrupt](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/gpioclx/nc-gpioclx-gpio_client_enable_interrupt)

[CLIENT_QueryControllerBasicInformation](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/gpioclx/nc-gpioclx-gpio_client_query_controller_basic_information)

[CLIENT_UnmaskInterrupt](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/gpioclx/nc-gpioclx-gpio_client_unmask_interrupt)

[KINTERRUPT_MODE](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/wdm/ne-wdm-_kinterrupt_mode)

[KINTERRUPT_POLARITY](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/wdm/ne-wdm-_kinterrupt_polarity)