## Description

This function is used to acquire the MDL cached by the KS port driver. The function is used by a kernel mode driver to acquire the MDL for a pipeline-supplied sample generated by an Avstream driver.

## Parameters

### `Irp`

The IRP passed from the user mode containing the user-mode sample buffer.

### `Guid`

The GUID extracted from the **MFSampleExtension_MDLCacheCookie** attribute item of the **IMFSample** passed by the pipeline.

### `CancelRoutine`

Cancel routine, a callback function supplied by the Avstream miniport driver. This function is called when the state of the pin generating the sample is going to STOP state. The signature of the cancel routine is as follows:

```cpp
_IRQL_requires_max_(DISPATCH_LEVEL)
typedef
VOID
(*PFNKSCANCELPINNEDMDL)(
    _In_ GUID,
    _In_ PVOID,
    _In_ PVOID
);
```

**GUID**
GUID passed in the **KsAcquireCachedMdl** function by the Avstream miniport driver.

**PVOID**
Cancel context supplied by the Avstream miniport driver in the **KsAcquireCachedMdl** function call.

**PVOID**
Release context. This is the output of the **KsAcquireCachedMdl** function.

### `CancelContext`

The context passed to the Avstream driver in the cancel routine. This context is used by the Avstream driver to get into the driver context.

### `MdlAddr`

Return value: The resultant MDL if KS finds the MDL stored for the sample buffer.

### `ReleaseContext`

Return value: The context to be stored by Avstream driver. This context should be passed to KS when releasing the MDL acquired by the **KsAcquireCachedMdl** call.

## Return value

 Returns STATUS_SUCCESS for success conditions.