# KSCOMPONENTID structure

## Description

The KSCOMPONENTID structure contains unique identifiers that describe an individual kernel streaming object.

## Members

### `Manufacturer`

Specifies the unique identifier for the manufacturer of the component. This is generated by the manufacturer, and may be resolved to a localized string representation through a registry entry.

### `Product`

Specifies the unique identifier for the product to which the component belongs. This is generated by the manufacturer, and may be resolved to a localized string representation through a registry entry.

### `Component`

Specifies the unique identifier for the component. This is generated by the manufacturer, and may be resolved to a localized string representation through a registry entry.

### `Name`

Optionally specifies the unique identifier for the name, which may be different than the Component entry, or this may be GUID_NULL. This is generated by the manufacturer, and may be resolved to a localized string representation through a registry entry.

### `Version`

Specifies the version number for the component or product.

### `Revision`

Specifies the revision number for the component or product.

## Remarks

Supply this structure in a [KSPROPERTY_GENERAL_COMPONENTID](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/stream/ksproperty-general-componentid) request.

## See also

[KSPROPERTY_GENERAL_COMPONENTID](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/stream/ksproperty-general-componentid)