# IWMPPluginEnable::SetEnable

## Description

\[The feature associated with this page, [Windows Media Player SDK](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/win32/wmp/windows-media-player-sdk), is a legacy feature. It has been superseded by [MediaPlayer](https://learn.microsoft.com/uwp/api/Windows.Media.Playback.MediaPlayer). **MediaPlayer** has been optimized for Windows 10 and Windows 11. Microsoft strongly recommends that new code use **MediaPlayer** instead of **Windows Media Player SDK**, when possible. Microsoft suggests that existing code that uses the legacy APIs be rewritten to use the new APIs if possible.\]

The **IWMPPluginEnable::SetEnable** method retrieves a value indicating whether user has enabled the plug-in.

## Parameters

### `fEnable` [in]

A variable that receives a value indicating whether the user has enabled the plug-in.

## Return value

The method returns an **HRESULT**.

## Remarks

The value of *fEnable* depends upon whether the user has enabled the plug-in on the **Plug-ins** tab of the Options dialog box in Windows Media Player.

DSP plug-ins are removed from the signal path when the user chooses to disable them. When disabled, a plug-in should still include code to copy data from the input buffer to the output buffer, performing only format conversion processing, if applicable. The sample code generated by the Windows Media Player plug-in wizard includes code to copy the buffers.

## See also

[IWMPPluginEnable Interface](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/wmpservices/nn-wmpservices-iwmppluginenable)

[IWMPPluginEnable::GetEnable](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/wmpservices/nf-wmpservices-iwmppluginenable-getenable)