# RpcServerUseProtseqExW function

## Description

The
**RpcServerUseProtseqEx** function tells the RPC run-time library to use the specified protocol sequence for receiving remote procedure calls.

## Parameters

### `Protseq`

Pointer to a string identifier of the protocol sequence to register with the RPC run-time library.

### `MaxCalls`

Backlog queue length for the **ncacn_ip_tcp** protocol sequence. All other protocol sequences ignore this parameter. Use RPC_C_PROTSEQ_MAX_REQS_DEFAULT to specify the default value. See Remarks.

### `SecurityDescriptor`

Pointer to an optional parameter provided for the Windows XP/2000/NT security subsystem. Used only for **ncacn_np** and **ncalrpc** protocol sequences. All other protocol sequences ignore this parameter. Using a security descriptor on the endpoint in order to make a server secure is not recommended. This parameter does not appear in the DCE specification for this API.

### `Policy`

Pointer to the
[RPC_POLICY](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/rpcdce/ns-rpcdce-rpc_policy) structure, which contains flags to restrict port allocation for dynamic ports and allow multihomed computers to selectively bind to network interface cards. The
**RPC_POLICY** structure enables the caller to direct the RPC run-time library to use an intranet port or an Internet port, among other options.

## Return value

| Value | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| **RPC_S_OK** | The call succeeded. |
| **RPC_S_PROTSEQ_NOT_SUPPORTED** | The protocol sequence is not supported on this host. |
| **RPC_S_INVALID_RPC_PROTSEQ** | The protocol sequence. |
| **RPC_S_OUT_OF_MEMORY** | The system is out of memory. |
| **RPC_S_INVALID_SECURITY_DESC** | The security descriptor is invalid. |

**Note** For a list of valid error codes, see
[RPC Return Values](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/Rpc/rpc-return-values).

## Remarks

The parameters and effects of
**RpcServerUseProtseqEx** subsume those of
[RpcServerUseProtseq](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/rpcdce/nf-rpcdce-rpcserveruseprotseq). The difference is the **Policy** field, which allows you to restrict port allocation for dynamic ports and allows multihomed machines to selectively bind to network interface cards.

Setting the **NICFlags** field of the
[RPC_POLICY](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/rpcdce/ns-rpcdce-rpc_policy) structure to zero makes this extended function functionally equivalent to the original
[RpcServerUseProtseq](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/rpcdce/nf-rpcdce-rpcserveruseprotseq), and the server will bind to NICs based on the settings in the system registry. For information, see
[Configuring the Registry for Port Allocations and Selective Binding](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/Rpc/configuring-the-windows-xp-2000-nt-registry-for-port-allocations-and-selective-binding).

**Note** The flag settings in the **Policy** field are effective only when the **ncacn_ip_tcp** or **ncadg_ip_udp** protocol sequence is in use. For all other protocol sequences, the RPC run time ignores these values.

A server application calls
**RpcServerUseProtseqEx** to register one protocol sequence with the RPC run-time library. To receive remote procedure call requests, a server must register at least one protocol sequence with the RPC run-time library. A server application can call
**RpcServerUseProtseqEx** multiple times to register additional protocol sequences.

For each protocol sequence registered by a server, the RPC run-time library creates one or more endpoints through which the server receives remote procedure call requests. The RPC run-time library creates different endpoints for each protocol sequence. The endpoint name is generated by the RPC run time or the operating system. For example, for **ncacn_ip_tcp**, the port number is dynamically determined by the RPC run time, depending on availability and registry settings.

For *MaxCalls*, the value provided by the application is only a hint. The RPC run time or the Windows Sockets provider may override the value. For example, on Windows XP or Windows 2000 Professional, the value is limited to 5. Values greater than 5 are ignored and 5 is used instead. On Windows Server 2003 and Windows 2000 Server, the value will be honored.

Applications must be careful to pass reasonable values in *MaxCalls*. Large values on Server, Advanced Server, or Datacenter Server can cause a large amount of non-paged pool memory to be used. Using too small a value is also unfavorable, as it may result in TCP SYN packets being met by TCP RST from the server if the backlog queue gets exhausted. An application developer should balance memory footprint versus scalability requirements when determining the proper value for *MaxCalls*.

When the computer is configured to use selective binding, successful return does not guarantee that the server has created endpoints for all the network interfaces present on the computer. The RPC run-time may not listen on some network interfaces depending on the selective binding settings. In addition, if an interface has not yet received an IP address using DHCP, the RPC server does not listen on the network interface until a DHCP address is assigned to it. A successful return implies that the server is listening on at least one network interface; the full list of the binding handles over which remote procedure calls can be received can be obtained with a call to the RpcServerInqBindings function.

To register all protocol sequences, a server calls
[RpcServerUseAllProtseqsEx](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/rpcdce/nf-rpcdce-rpcserveruseallprotseqsex) routine.

For more information, see
[Server-Side Binding](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/Rpc/server-side-binding).

> [!NOTE]
> The rpcdce.h header defines RpcServerUseProtseqEx as an alias that automatically selects the ANSI or Unicode version of this function based on the definition of the UNICODE preprocessor constant. Mixing usage of the encoding-neutral alias with code that is not encoding-neutral can lead to mismatches that result in compilation or runtime errors. For more information, see [Conventions for Function Prototypes](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/win32/intl/conventions-for-function-prototypes).

## See also

[RpcServerUseAllProtseqsEx](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/rpcdce/nf-rpcdce-rpcserveruseallprotseqsex)

[RpcServerUseAllProtseqsIfEx](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/rpcdce/nf-rpcdce-rpcserveruseallprotseqsifex)

[RpcServerUseProtseqEpEx](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/rpcdce/nf-rpcdce-rpcserveruseprotseqepex)

[RpcServerUseProtseqIfEx](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/rpcdce/nf-rpcdce-rpcserveruseprotseqifex)