# _DXVA_COPPStatusSignalingCmdData structure

## Description

The DXVA_COPPStatusSignalingCmdData structure describes how the signal that goes through the physical connector associated with the DirectX VA COPP device is protected.

## Members

### `rApp`

Specifies a 128-bit random number, used once. This random number is generated by the requesting application and supplied to the display driver in the **rApp** member of the [DXVA_COPPStatusInput](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/dxva/ns-dxva-_dxva_coppstatusinput) structure.

### `dwFlags`

Specifies additional status information that might be relevant to the calling application. The display driver should set **dwFlags** to the COPP_StatusNormal (0x00) value from the **COPP_StatusFlags** enumeration type or to a valid ORed combination of the following COPP_StatusFlags:

* COPP_LinkLost (0x01)
* COPP_RenegotiationRequired (0x02)

### `AvailableTVProtectionStandards`

Specifies a valid ORed combination of values from the **COPP_TVProtectionStandard** enumeration type that indicates the types of television signals that the physical connector associated with the DirectX VA COPP device can carry. For the list of signal types, see the **ActiveTVProtectionStandard** member of the [DXVA_COPPSetSignalingCmdData](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/dxva/ns-dxva-_dxva_coppsetsignalingcmddata) structure.

### `ActiveTVProtectionStandard`

Specifies a valid ORed combination of values from the **COPP_TVProtectionStandard** enumeration type that indicates the types of television signals that the physical connector associated with the DirectX VA COPP device currently carries. For the list of signal types, see the **ActiveTVProtectionStandard** member of the [DXVA_COPPSetSignalingCmdData](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/dxva/ns-dxva-_dxva_coppsetsignalingcmddata) structure.

### `TVType`

Specifies a value that indicates attributes of the connected display monitor that the driver is aware of. Not currently used.

### `AspectRatioValidMask1`

Specifies the COPP_ImageAspectRatio_EN300294_Mask (0x00000007) constant that indicates that only the first three bits in the following **AspectRatioData1** member are valid.

### `AspectRatioData1`

Specifies one of the values from the **COPP_ImageAspectRatio_EN300294** enumeration type to indicate an ETSI EN 300 294 value. For the list of values, see the **AspectRatioData1** member of the [DXVA_COPPSetSignalingCmdData](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/dxva/ns-dxva-_dxva_coppsetsignalingcmddata) structure.

### `AspectRatioValidMask2`

Specifies a value that indicates the valid bitfields in the following **AspectRatioData2** member.

### `AspectRatioData2`

Specifies 32-bit data for additional aspect ratio-related data for specific protection standards. This data can be used to read End and Q0 values for EIA-608-B, or active format description for CEA-805-A Type B packets.

### `AspectRatioValidMask3`

Specifies a value that indicates the valid bitfields in the following **AspectRatioData3** member.

### `AspectRatioData3`

Specifies 32-bit data for additional aspect ratio-related data for specific protection standards. This data can be used to read End and Q0 values for EIA-608-B, or active format description for CEA-805-A Type B packets.

### `ExtendedInfoValidMask`

Specifies an array of values that indicate the valid bitfields in the respective elements of the following **ExtendedInfoData** array member.

### `ExtendedInfoData`

Specifies an array of additional 32-bit data. Not currently used.

## See also

[COPPQueryStatus](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/display/coppquerystatus)

[DXVA_COPPSetProtectionLevelCmdData](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/dxva/ns-dxva-_dxva_coppsetprotectionlevelcmddata)

[DXVA_COPPStatusInput](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/dxva/ns-dxva-_dxva_coppstatusinput)

[DXVA_COPPStatusOutput](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/dxva/ns-dxva-_dxva_coppstatusoutput)