## Description

Contains result data generated by an EAP method during authentication.

## Members

### `fIsSuccess`

If **TRUE**, the supplicant was successfully authenticated; if **FALSE**, it was not.

### `dwFailureReasonCode`

Contains a reason code if the supplicant could not be authenticated.

### `fSaveConnectionData`

If **TRUE**, the connection data specified in **pConnectionData** data must be persisted to disk; otherwise, it does not need to be saved.

### `dwSizeofConnectionData`

The size, in bytes, of **pConnectionData**.

### `pConnectionData`

A pointer to a byte buffer that contains information on the connection over which the EAP authentication session is held. The buffer can contain no more than *dwSizeOfConnectionData* elements.

### `fSaveUserData`

If **TRUE**, the user data specified in **pUserData** data must be persisted to disk; otherwise, it does not need to be saved.

### `dwSizeofUserData`

The size, in bytes, of *pUserData*.

### `pUserData`

A pointer to a byte buffer that contains information on the supplicant user that requested the EAP authentication session.The buffer can contain no more than *dwSizeofUserData* elements.

### `pAttribArray`

A pointer to an [EAP_ATTRIBUTES](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/eaptypes/ns-eaptypes-eap_attributes) array structure that contains the EAP attributes returned by the authentication session.

### `pEapError`

A pointer to the [EAP_ERROR](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/eaptypes/ns-eaptypes-eap_error) structure that contains any errors raised during the execution of this function call. After consuming the error data, this memory must be freed by passing a pointer to [EapPeerFreeErrorMemory](https://learn.microsoft.com/previous-versions/windows/desktop/api/eapmethodpeerapis/nf-eapmethodpeerapis-eappeerfreeerrormemory).

### `pNgcKerbTicket`

Kerberos ticket.

### `fSaveToCredMan`

Whether or not to save to Credential Manager.

## See also

[EAPHost Peer Method Structures](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/win32/eaphost/eap-host-peer-method-structures)