# _MSiSCSI_TCPIPConfig structure

## Description

The MSiSCSI_TCPIPConfig structure reports TCP/IP configuration information about one of the adapter's ports.

## Members

### `UseLinkLocalAddress`

A Boolean value that indicates whether the HBA should use an autogenerated and non-routable (link local) address as its IP address. If this member is **TRUE**, the HBA should use an autogenerated and non-routable (link local) address as its IP address. If this member is **FALSE**, the HBA is not required to use a link local address.

### `EnableDHCP`

A Boolean value that indicates whether the HBA should use DHCP to discover IP address information. If this member is **TRUE**, the HBA should use DHCP to discover IP address information. If this member is **FALSE**, the HBA is not required to use DHCP to discover IP address information.

### `UseDHCPForDNS`

A Boolean value that indicates whether the HBA should use DHCP to discover DNS addresses. If this member is **TRUE**, the HBA should use DHCP to discover DNS addresses. If **FALSE**, the HBA is not required to use DHCP to discover DNS addresses.

### `IPVersions`

The version of the IP protocol that the HBA supports. A value of 0x00000001 indicates that the HBA supports version 4 of the IP protocol, and a value of 0x00000002 indicates that the HBA supports version 6.

### `IpAddress`

A [ISCSI_IP_Address](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/iscsidef/ns-iscsidef-_iscsi_ip_address) structure that specifies the IP address for the HBA. The ISCSI_IP_Address structure provides a version-independent way of defining the IP address.

### `DefaultGateway`

A [ISCSI_IP_Address](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/iscsidef/ns-iscsidef-_iscsi_ip_address) structure that specifies the static IP address for the default gateway. The ISCSI_IP_Address structure provides a version-independent way of defining the IP address of the default gateway.

### `SubnetMask`

A [ISCSI_IP_Address](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/iscsidef/ns-iscsidef-_iscsi_ip_address) structure that specifies the static subnet mask. The ISCSI_IP_Address structure provides a version-independent way of defining the subnet mask.

### `PreferredDNSServer`

A [ISCSI_IP_Address](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/iscsidef/ns-iscsidef-_iscsi_ip_address) structure that specifies the IP address of the preferred DNS server. The ISCSI_IP_Address structure provides a version-independent way of defining the IP address of the preferred DNS server.

### `AlternateDNSServer`

A [ISCSI_IP_Address](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/iscsidef/ns-iscsidef-_iscsi_ip_address) structure that specifies the IP address of the alternate DNS server. The ISCSI_IP_Address structure provides a version-independent way of defining the IP address of the alternate DNS server.

## Remarks

The WMI tool suite automatically generates a declaration of the MSiSCSI_TCPIPConfig structure when it compiles the [MSiSCSI_TCPIPConfig WMI Class](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/storage/msiscsi-tcpipconfig-wmi-class) in *Config.mof*.You must implement this class.

## See also

[ISCSI_IP_Address](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/iscsidef/ns-iscsidef-_iscsi_ip_address)

[MSiSCSI_TCPIPConfig WMI Class](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/storage/msiscsi-tcpipconfig-wmi-class)