## Description

An *InterruptMessageService* routine services a message-signaled interrupt.

## Parameters

### `Interrupt` [in]

A pointer to the [KINTERRUPT](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/kernel/eprocess) structure for the interrupt. The driver received this pointer in the call to the [IoConnectInterruptEx](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/wdm/nf-wdm-ioconnectinterruptex) routine that registered the driver's *InterruptMessageService* routine.

### `ServiceContext` [in]

The *ServiceContext* value that the driver passed to [IoConnectInterruptEx](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/wdm/nf-wdm-ioconnectinterruptex) when the *InterruptMessageService* routine was registered.

### `MessageID`

The message ID for the interrupt. This value is the index for the interrupt's entry in the **MessageInfo** member array in the [**IO_INTERRUPT_MESSAGE_INFO**](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/wdm/ns-wdm-_io_interrupt_message_info) structure that describes the driver's message-signaled interrupts.

## Return value

The *InterruptMessageService* routine returns **TRUE** if the interrupt is one handled by the *InterruptMessageService* routine. Otherwise, it returns **FALSE**.

## Remarks

Drivers use [IoConnectInterruptEx](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/wdm/nf-wdm-ioconnectinterruptex) to register an *InterruptMessageService* routine to handle their message-signaled interrupts. A driver can subsequently unregister the routine by calling [IoDisconnectInterruptEx](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/wdm/nf-wdm-iodisconnectinterruptex). Message-signaled interrupts are supported starting with Windows Vista.

The system can call an *InterruptMessageService* routine even when the routine's interrupt has not occurred. For example, if a message-signaled interrupt is shared, *InterruptMessageService* can be called for interrupts belonging to other devices. The routine must check whether the value for the *ServiceContext* parameter matches the value passed to **IoConnectInterruptEx**. If the value does match, *InterruptMessageService* handles the interrupt and returns **TRUE**. Otherwise, *InterruptMessageService* does not handle the interrupt and returns **FALSE**.

A driver that uses MSI (PCI 2.2) must examine the **MessageID** parameter to distinguish between the different messages generated by the device, since they all share the same interrupt resource
(and therefore the same *InterruptMessageService*> callback).

Note that if the system receives multiple identical interrupts over a short time interval, it can combine these into a single call to *InterruptMessageService*. The routine must be written to handle multiple identical interrupts within a single call.

Message-signaled interrupts are similar in behavior to edge-triggered interrupts. The device sends an interrupt request but does not receive any hardware acknowledgment that the request was received.

An *InterruptMessageService* executes at an IRQL greater than or equal to the maximum device IRQL (DIRQL) for every interrupt the routine handles.

### Examples

To define an *InterruptMessageService* callback routine, you must first provide a function declaration that identifies the type of callback routine you're defining. Windows provides a set of callback function types for drivers. Declaring a function using the callback function types helps [Code Analysis for Drivers](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/devtest/code-analysis-for-drivers), [Static Driver Verifier](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/devtest/static-driver-verifier) (SDV), and other verification tools find errors, and it's a requirement for writing drivers for the Windows operating system.

For example, to define an *InterruptMessageService* callback routine that is named `MyInterruptMessageService`, use the KMESSAGE_SERVICE_ROUTINE type as shown in this code example:

```cpp
KMESSAGE_SERVICE_ROUTINE MyInterruptMessageService;
```

Then implement your callback routine as follows:

```cpp
_Use_decl_annotations_
BOOLEAN
  MyInterruptMessageService(
    struct _KINTERRUPT  *Interrupt,
    PVOID  ServiceContext,
    ULONG  MessageId
    )
  {
      // Function body
  }
```

The KMESSAGE_SERVICE_ROUTINE function type is defined in the Wdm.h header file. To more accurately identify errors when you run the code analysis tools, be sure to add the `Use_decl_annotations` annotation to your function definition. The `Use_decl_annotations` annotation ensures that the annotations that are applied to the KMESSAGE_SERVICE_ROUTINE function type in the header file are used. For more information about the requirements for function declarations, see [Declaring Functions by Using Function Role Types for WDM Drivers](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/devtest/declaring-functions-using-function-role-types-for-wdm-drivers). For information about `Use_decl_annotations`, see [Annotating Function Behavior](https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/code-quality/annotating-function-behavior).

## See also

[Using Interrupt Resource Descriptors](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/kernel/using-interrupt-resource-descriptors)

[IO_INTERRUPT_MESSAGE_INFO](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/wdm/ns-wdm-_io_interrupt_message_info)

[IoConnectInterruptEx](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/wdm/nf-wdm-ioconnectinterruptex)

[IoDisconnectInterruptEx](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/wdm/nf-wdm-iodisconnectinterruptex)