# WM_READER_CLIENTINFO structure

## Description

\[The feature associated with this page, [Windows Media Format 11 SDK](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/win32/wmformat/windows-media-format-11-sdk), is a legacy feature. It has been superseded by [Source Reader](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/win32/medfound/source-reader) and [Sink Writer](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/win32/medfound/sink-writer). **Source Reader** and **Sink Writer** have been optimized for Windows 10 and Windows 11. Microsoft strongly recommends that new code use **Source Reader** and **Sink Writer** instead of **Windows Media Format 11 SDK**, when possible. Microsoft suggests that existing code that uses the legacy APIs be rewritten to use the new APIs if possible.\]

The **WM_READER_CLIENTINFO** structure describes the client reader (player) accessing the media stream.

## Members

### `cbSize`

Size of the structure in bytes.

### `wszLang`

Two-letter or three-letter language code.

### `wszBrowserUserAgent`

The browser's user-agent string.

### `wszBrowserWebPage`

Web page that contains the [plug-in](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/wmformat/wmformat-glossary).

### `qwReserved`

Reserved.

### `pReserved`

Unused. See Remarks.

### `wszHostExe`

Host application's .exe file; for example, Iexplore.exe.

### `qwHostVersion`

Version number of the host application. The value is four unsigned **WORD** values packed into a 64-bit integer. When the client information is logged, each **WORD** value is unpacked and translated into its decimal equivalent. For example, if the value is 0x0001000200030004, the version number is logged as "1.2.3.4".

### `wszPlayerUserAgent`

String identifying the player application. For example, "WMPlayer/9.0.0.0" identifies version 9 of the Windows Media Player.

## Remarks

In earlier versions of this SDK, the **pReserved** member was named **wszHostUniquePID**. The application used this member to specify an ID to send to the server. In the current version, the reader object automatically generates a GUID for the ID, so this structure member is obsolete. It is present only to provide binary compatibility with earlier versions of the SDK.

The GUID generated by the reader object represents a unique user on a particular computer. The reader object stores this value in the registry. If the registry entry does not exist, the SDK dynamically creates it. For more information, see [IWMReaderAdvanced2::SetLogClientID](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/wmsdkidl/nf-wmsdkidl-iwmreaderadvanced2-setlogclientid).

## See also

[IWMReaderAdvanced::SetClientInfo](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/wmsdkidl/nf-wmsdkidl-iwmreaderadvanced-setclientinfo)

[Structures](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/wmformat/structures)