# MI_Module structure

## Description

Generated by the provider, this object contains
all the data needed by the provider manager to manage the providers within this
module.

## Members

### `version`

The version the provider was compiled with (**MI_VERSION**).

### `generatorVersion`

The hex value of **MI_VERSION** when the generator was compiled.

### `flags`

Module flags.

#### MI_MODULE_FLAG_STANDARD_QUALIFIERS ((1 << 0))

Whether standard qualifiers were generated.

#### MI_MODULE_FLAG_DESCRIPTIONS ((1 << 1))

Whether description qualifiers were generated.

#### MI_MODULE_FLAG_VALUES ((1 << 2))

Whether Values and ValueMap qualifiers were generated.

#### MI_MODULE_FLAG_MAPPING_STRINGS ((1 << 3))

Whether the MappingStrings qualifiers were generated.

#### MI_MODULE_FLAG_BOOLEANS ((1 << 4))

Whether the boolean qualifiers were generated.

#### MI_MODULE_FLAG_LOCALIZED ((1 << 6))

Whether translatable qualifiers were localized (and STRING.RC generated).

#### MI_MODULE_FLAG_FILTER_SUPPORT ((1<<7))

Whether filters are supported.

### `charSize`

Size of the MI_Char in bytes.

### `schemaDecl`

Pointer to generated schema declarations (static providers only).

### `Load`

Function pointer that points to the provider's Load function where initialization takes place.

### `Unload`

Function pointer that points to the provider's Unload function where cleanup takes place.

### `dynamicProviderFT`

The module may implement a single 'dynamic provider' (one that provides CIM instances, CIM classes and CIM
qualifier declarations). The provider manager uses this function table when it is non-null, and
**schemaDecl** is **NULL** or does not contain runtime type
information (RTTI) corresponding to the given request.

## See also

[MI_Module_Load](https://learn.microsoft.com/previous-versions/windows/desktop/legacy/dn792322(v=vs.85))

[MI_Module_Unload](https://learn.microsoft.com/previous-versions/windows/desktop/legacy/dn792323(v=vs.85))

[MI_ProviderFT](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/mi/ns-mi-mi_providerft)

[MI_SchemaDecl](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/mi/ns-mi-mi_schemadecl)