# RSVP_RESERVE_INFO structure

## Description

The QOS object
**RSVP_RESERVE_INFO**, through the ProviderSpecific buffer, enables RSVP behavior for a given flow to be specified or modified at a granular level, and enables default RSVP style settings for a flow to be overridden. Although
**RSVP_RESERVE_INFO** is technically a structure, its use within Windows 2000 QOS technology—and especially its required inclusion of the
**QOS_OBJECT_HDR** as its first member—define it as a QOS object.

**Note** The RSVP_RESERVE_INFO QOS object is not supported except on Windows 2000.

## Members

### `ObjectHdr`

The QOS object
**QOS_OBJECT_HDR**.

### `Style`

Specifies the RSVP reservation style for a given flow, and can be used to replace default reservation styles placed on a particular type of flow. More information about RSVP reservation styles, and the default settings for certain QOS-enabled socket sessions, can be found under
[Network-Driven QOS Components](https://learn.microsoft.com/previous-versions/windows/desktop/qos/network-driven-qos-components). This member can be one of the following values.

| Value | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| **RSVP_WILDCARD_SYLE** | Implements the WF RSVP reservation style. RSVP_WILDCARD_STYLE is the default value for multicast receivers and UDP unicast receivers. Specifying RSVP_WILDCARD_STYLE through RSVP_RESERVE_INFO is useful for overriding the default value (RSVP_FIXED_FILTER_STYLE) applied to connected unicast receivers. |
| **RSVP_FIXED_FILTER_STYLE** | Implements the Fixed Filter (FF) RSVP reservation style. RSVP_FIXED_FILTER_STYLE is useful for overriding the default style for multicast receivers or unconnected UDP unicast receivers (RSVP_WILDCARD_STYLE). It may also be used to generate multiple RSVP_FIXED_FILTER_STLYE reservations in instances where only a single RSVP_FIXED_FILTER_STYLE reservation will be generated by default, such as with connected unicast receivers. |
| **RSVP_SHARED_EXPLICIT_STYLE** | Implements the Shared Explicit (SE) RSVP reservation style. |
| **RSVP_DEFAULT_STYLE** | Implements the default reservation style for the computer. |

**Note** It is important to note that the number of senders included in any individual RSVP_SHARED_EXPLICIT_STYLE reservation must be less than one hundred senders. If more than one hundred senders attempt to connect to an RSVP_SHARED_EXPLICIT_STYLE reservation, the one-hundredth (and above) attempt fails without notice.

### `ConfirmRequest`

Can be used by a receiving application to request notification of its reservation request by setting **ConfirmRequest** to a nonzero value. Such notification is achieved when RSVP-aware devices in the data path between sender and receiver (or vice-versa) transmit an RESV CONFIRMATION message toward the requesting node. Note that an RSVP node is not required to automatically generate RESV CONFIRMATION messages.

### `PolicyElementList`

Pointer to the set of policy elements. Optional policy information, as provided in an [RSVP_POLICY_INFO](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/qossp/ns-qossp-rsvp_policy_info) structure.

### `NumFlowDesc`

Specifies the FLOWDESCRIPTOR count.

### `FlowDescList`

Pointer to the list of FLOWDESCRIPTORs.

## See also

[QOS_OBJECT_HDR](https://learn.microsoft.com/previous-versions/windows/desktop/api/qos/ns-qos-qos_object_hdr)