# _NDIS_PM_WAKE_REASON_TYPE enumeration

## Description

The **NDIS_PM_WAKE_REASON_TYPE** enumeration identifies the type of wake-up event that was generated by the network adapter.

## Constants

### `NdisWakeReasonUnspecified:0x0000`

The type of wake-up event is not specified.

### `NdisWakeReasonPacket:0x0001`

The network adapter generated the wake-up event because it received a packet that matched a wake-on-LAN (WOL) pattern.

### `NdisWakeReasonMediaDisconnect:0x0002`

The network adapter generated the wake-up event because it disconnected from the network media.

### `NdisWakeReasonMediaConnect:0x0003`

The network adapter generated the wake-up event because it connected to the network media.

### `NdisWakeReasonWlanNLODiscovery:0x1000`

The 802.11 network adapter generated the wake-up event because it detected a service set identifier (SSID) that was specified through a network list offload (NLO).

For more information about NLO, see [Wi-Fi Network List Offload](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/network/wi-fi-network-list-offload).

### `NdisWakeReasonWlanAPAssociationLost:0x1001`

The 802.11 network adapter generated the wake-up event because it became disassociated with the access point (AP).

### `NdisWakeReasonWlanGTKHandshakeError:0x1002`

The 802.11 network adapter generated the wake-up event because it encountered an error during the IEEE 802.11i RSN group transient key (GTK) handshake with the AP.

### `NdisWakeReasonWlan4WayHandshakeRequest:0x1003`

The 802.11 network adapter generated the wake-up event because it received the first frame of the IEEE 802.11i RSN 4-way handshake with the AP. This handshake is performed when the adapter authenticates with the AP.

### `NdisWakeReasonWwanRegisterState:0x2000`

The mobile broadband (MB) network adapter generated the wake-up event because its registration state to the MB Service has changed.

### `NdisWakeReasonWwanSMSReceive:0x2001`

The mobile broadband (MB) network adapter generated the wake-up event because the MB Service has to be notified about the receipt of a Short Message Service (SMS) message. The adapter generates this wake-up event either after the completion of a previously-issued [OID_WWAN_SMS_READ](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/network/oid-wwan-sms-read) query request, or the arrival of a new class-0 (flash/alert) message from the network provider as an event notification.

### `NdisWakeReasonWwanUSSDReceive:0x2002`

The mobile broadband (MB) network adapter generated the wake-up event because it received an Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) message.

### `NdisWakeReasonWwanPacketState:0x2004`

The mobile broadband (MB) network adapter generated the wake-up event because of a packet state change.

### `NdisWakeReasonWwanUiccChange:0x2005`

The mobile broadband (MB) network adapter generated the wake-up event because the SIM card state changed.

## Remarks

The **WakeReason** member of the [NDIS_PM_WAKE_REASON](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/ntddndis/ns-ntddndis-_ndis_pm_wake_reason) structure contains an **NDIS_PM_WAKE_REASON_TYPE** enumeration value.

## See also

[NDIS_PM_WAKE_REASON](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/ntddndis/ns-ntddndis-_ndis_pm_wake_reason)