# _NDIS_SRIOV_VF_SERIAL_NUMBER_INFO structure

## Description

The **NDIS_SRIOV_VF_SERIAL_NUMBER_INFO** structure contains the serial number associated with a PCI Express (PCIe) Virtual Function (VF) network adapter. This adapter is exposed in the guest operating system of a Hyper-V child partition.

## Members

### `Header`

The type, revision, and size of the **NDIS_SRIOV_VF_SERIAL_NUMBER_INFO** structure. This member is formatted as an [NDIS_OBJECT_HEADER](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/objectheader/ns-objectheader-ndis_object_header) structure.

NDIS sets the **Type** member of **Header** to NDIS_OBJECT_TYPE_DEFAULT. To specify the version of the **NDIS_SRIOV_VF_SERIAL_NUMBER_INFO** structure, NDIS sets the **Revision** member of **Header** to the following value:

#### NDIS_SRIOV_VF_SERIAL_NUMBER_INFO_REVISION_1

Original version for NDIS 6.30 and later.

Set the **Size** member to NDIS_SIZEOF_SRIOV_VF_SERIAL_NUMBER_INFO_REVISION_1.

### `SerialNumber`

A ULONG value that specifies the serial number associated with the VF network adapter in a Hyper-V child partition. This value is generated by the virtualization stack that runs in the management operating system of the Hyper-V parent partition.

The serial number is unique across all VF adapters in the child partition. NDIS obtains the VF serial number from the underlying virtual PCI (VPCI) bus driver that runs in the guest operating system of the child partition.

## Remarks

The **NDIS_SRIOV_VF_SERIAL_NUMBER_INFO** structure is used in OID query requests of [OID_SRIOV_VF_SERIAL_NUMBER](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/network/oid-sriov-vf-serial-number).

The virtualization stack uses the serial number to map the VF network adapter in a Hyper-V child partition to an instance of a VF on the physical network adapter. The virtualization stack creates the unique VF serial number before resources are allocated for the VF through an OID set request of [OID_NIC_SWITCH_ALLOCATE_VF](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/network/oid-nic-switch-allocate-vf).

## See also

[NDIS_OBJECT_HEADER](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/objectheader/ns-objectheader-ndis_object_header)

[OID_SRIOV_VF_SERIAL_NUMBER](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/network/oid-sriov-vf-serial-number)