# IDebugControl3::GetLastEventInformation

## Description

The **GetLastEventInformation** method returns information about the last event that occurred in a target.

## Parameters

### `Type` [out]

Receives the type of the last event generated by the target. For a list of possible types, see [DEBUG_EVENT_XXX](https://learn.microsoft.com/previous-versions/ff541478(v=vs.85)).

### `ProcessId` [out]

Receives the process ID of the process in which the event occurred. If this information is not available, DEBUG_ANY_ID will be returned instead.

### `ThreadId` [out]

Receives the thread index (not the thread ID) of the thread in which the last event occurred. If this information is not available, DEBUG_ANY_ID will be returned instead.

### `ExtraInformation` [out, optional]

Receives extra information about the event. The contents of this extra information depends on the type of the event. If *ExtraInformation* is **NULL**, this information is not returned.

### `ExtraInformationSize` [in]

Specifies the size, in bytes, of the buffer that *ExtraInformation* specifies.

### `ExtraInformationUsed` [out, optional]

Receives the size, in bytes, of extra information. If *ExtraInformationUsed* is **NULL**, this information is not returned.

### `Description` [out, optional]

Receives the description of the event. If *Description* is **NULL**, this information is not returned.

### `DescriptionSize` [in]

Specifies the size, in characters, of the buffer that *Description* specifies. This size includes the space for the '\0' terminating character.

### `DescriptionUsed` [out, optional]

Receives the size in characters of the description of the event. This size includes the space for the '\0' terminating character. If *DescriptionUsed* is **NULL**, this information is not returned.

## Return value

This method may also return error values. See [Return Values](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/debugger/hresult-values) for more details.

| Return code | Description |
| --- | --- |
| **S_OK** | The method was successful. |
| **S_FALSE** | The method was successful. However, either *ExtraInformationSize* or *DescriptionSize* were smaller that the size of the respective data or string and the data or string was truncated to fit inside the buffer. |

## Remarks

For thread and process creation events, the thread index and process ID returned to *ThreadId* and *ProcessId* are for the newly created thread or process.

For more information about the last event, see the topic [Event Information](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/debugger/event-information).

## See also

[GetStoredEventInformation](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/dbgeng/nf-dbgeng-idebugcontrol4-getstoredeventinformation)

[IDebugControl](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/dbgeng/nn-dbgeng-idebugcontrol)

[IDebugControl2](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/dbgeng/nn-dbgeng-idebugcontrol2)

[IDebugControl3](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/dbgeng/nn-dbgeng-idebugcontrol3)