# _DXGK_PATCHFLAGS structure

## Description

The DXGK_PATCHFLAGS structure identifies, in bit-field flags, information about the direct memory access (DMA) buffer that requires patching.

## Members

### `Paging` [in]

A UINT value that specifies whether the DMA buffer is a paging buffer (that is, contains paging operations).

Setting this member is equivalent to setting the first bit of the 32-bit **Value** member (0x00000001).

### `Present` [in]

A UINT value that specifies whether the DMA buffer contains a present operation. The DMA buffer was generated by the driver's [DxgkDdiPresent](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkddi_present) function.

Setting this member is equivalent to setting the second bit of the 32-bit **Value** member (0x00000002).

### `RedirectedPresent` [in]

A UINT value that specifies whether the DMA buffer contains a redirected present operation, which is a present to a shared allocation that belongs to the Display Windows Manager. The DMA buffer was generated by the driver's [DxgkDdiRender](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkddi_render) function.

Setting this member is equivalent to setting the third bit of the 32-bit **Value** member (0x00000004).

### `NullRendering` [in]

A UINT value that specifies whether the driver should simulate the insertion of the DMA buffer into the ring (that is, whether the driver should generate the fence interrupt at the end of the DMA buffer); however, the driver should not actually run (render) the DMA buffer. The **NullRendering** bit-field flag is set only during performance investigating and debugging to simulate an infinitely fast rendering engine that still must perform the overhead of DMA buffer submission and signaling. **NullRendering** is never set during typical operations.

Setting this member is equivalent to setting the fourth bit of the 32-bit **Value** member (0x00000008).

### `Reserved` [in]

This member is reserved and should be set to zero. Setting this member to zero is equivalent to setting the remaining 28 bits (0xFFFFFFF0) of the 32-bit **Value** member to zeros.

### `Value` [in]

A member in the union that DXGK_PATCHFLAGS contains that can hold a 32-bit value that identifies information about the DMA buffer that requires patching.

## See also

[DXGKARG_PATCH](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/d3dkmddi/ns-d3dkmddi-_dxgkarg_patch)

[DxgkDdiPatch](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkddi_patch)

[DxgkDdiPresent](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkddi_present)

[DxgkDdiRender](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkddi_render)