# WSDXML_NAMESPACE structure

## Description

Specifies an XML namespace.

## Members

### `Uri`

The URI that identifies the namespace.

### `PreferredPrefix`

The preferred prefix to be used in XML prefix mappings.

### `Names`

Reference to an array of [WSDXML_NAME](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/wsdxmldom/ns-wsdxmldom-wsdxml_name) structures that specify the names in the namespace.

### `NamesCount`

The number of names in the **Names** array.

### `Encoding`

The encoded reference for the namespace.

## Remarks

**WSDXML_NAMESPACE** represents the association between a namespace URI and a list of names belonging to that namespace. Additionally, it provides a **PreferredPrefix** for the namespace, which gives guidance on the default prefix to use for a specified namespace. In the context of WSDAPI, there are two types of namespaces: static namespaces and dynamic namespaces.

Static namespaces are user provided, well known, and assumed to be complete namespaces, in that all names belonging to the namespace should be in names array. When processing a received XML document, any element or attribute in the document that claims to be in a static namespace but has a name not listed in that namespace is treated as an error. Static namespaces are typically generated pre-compile time, by a tool like WSDCodeGen.

Dynamic namespaces are generated by WSDAPI. These are built when new namespaces are seen in XML documents. With dynamic namespaces, no assumptions can be made about whether a specified name actually belongs to the formal namespace or not, so all names are accepted as being part of the namespace. As such, dynamic namespaces expand the **Names** array as they process new names in a specified document.