# _DXGKMDT_OPM_COPP_COMPATIBLE_GET_INFO_PARAMETERS structure

## Description

The DXGKMDT_OPM_COPP_COMPATIBLE_GET_INFO_PARAMETERS structure contains parameters that are used to retrieve information from a protected output object in a call to the [DxgkDdiOPMGetCOPPCompatibleInformation](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/dispmprt/nc-dispmprt-dxgkddi_opm_get_copp_compatible_information) function.

## Members

### `rnRandomNumber`

A [DXGKMDT_OPM_RANDOM_NUMBER](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/d3dkmdt/ns-d3dkmdt-_dxgkmdt_opm_random_number) structure that contains a protected output object's 128-bit cryptographically secure random number. This random number is generated by an application and supplied to the display miniport driver in **rnRandomNumber** in a call to the driver's [DxgkDdiOPMGetCOPPCompatibleInformation](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/dispmprt/nc-dispmprt-dxgkddi_opm_get_copp_compatible_information) function.

### `guidInformation`

The GUID that is used to retrieve the information. **guidInformation** can be set to one of the following GUIDs:

* DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_CONNECTED_HDCP_DEVICE_INFORMATION
* DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_CONNECTOR_TYPE
* DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_SUPPORTED_PROTECTION_TYPES
* DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_VIRTUAL_PROTECTION_LEVEL
* DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_ACTUAL_PROTECTION_LEVEL
* DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_ACTUAL_OUTPUT_FORMAT
* DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_ADAPTER_BUS_TYPE
* DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_ACP_AND_CGMSA_SIGNALING

### `ulSequenceNumber`

A sequence number. For the [DxgkDdiOPMGetCOPPCompatibleInformation](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/dispmprt/nc-dispmprt-dxgkddi_opm_get_copp_compatible_information) function to process an information request, the value in **ulSequenceNumber** must match the current 4-byte sequence number that the display miniport driver stores. If a match is not detected, *DxgkDdiOPMGetCOPPCompatibleInformation* returns an error code. If a match is detected, *DxgkDdiOPMGetCOPPCompatibleInformation* increments the stored sequence number before returning. The initial 4-byte sequence number was part of the 256-byte array that the *EncryptedParameters* parameter of the [DxgkDdiOPMSetSigningKeyAndSequenceNumbers](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/dispmprt/nc-dispmprt-dxgkddi_opm_set_signing_key_and_sequence_numbers) function pointed to.

### `cbParametersSize`

The size, in bytes, of the valid data that the **abParameters** member points to.

### `abParameters`

A 4056-byte array that contains the data that accompanies the information request that is identified by the **guidInformation** member.

No data is required for the DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_CONNECTOR_TYPE, DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_SUPPORTED_PROTECTION_TYPES, DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_ACTUAL_OUTPUT_FORMAT, DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_CONNECTED_HDCP_DEVICE_INFORMATION, DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_ADAPTER_BUS_TYPE, and DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_ACP_AND_CGMSA_SIGNALING requests.

The DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_ACTUAL_PROTECTION_LEVEL and DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_VIRTUAL_PROTECTION_LEVEL requests require data that identifies the protection type that the protection level is requested for. Therefore, these requests require that the first 4 bytes in the **abParameters** array contain the protection type.

## See also

[DXGKMDT_OPM_RANDOM_NUMBER](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/d3dkmdt/ns-d3dkmdt-_dxgkmdt_opm_random_number)

[DxgkDdiOPMGetCOPPCompatibleInformation](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/dispmprt/nc-dispmprt-dxgkddi_opm_get_copp_compatible_information)