# _DXGKMDT_OPM_ACP_AND_CGMSA_SIGNALING structure

## Description

The DXGKMDT_OPM_ACP_AND_CGMSA_SIGNALING structure describes how the signal that goes through the physical connector that is associated with the protected output object is protected.

## Members

### `rnRandomNumber`

A [DXGKMDT_OPM_RANDOM_NUMBER](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/d3dkmdt/ns-d3dkmdt-_dxgkmdt_opm_random_number) structure that contains a protected output object's 128-bit cryptographically secure random number. This random number is generated by an application and supplied to the display miniport driver in a call to the driver's [DxgkDdiOPMGetCOPPCompatibleInformation](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/dispmprt/nc-dispmprt-dxgkddi_opm_get_copp_compatible_information) function. This random number is supplied to the driver in the **rnRandomNumber** member of the [DXGKMDT_OPM_COPP_COMPATIBLE_GET_INFO_PARAMETERS](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/d3dkmdt/ns-d3dkmdt-_dxgkmdt_opm_copp_compatible_get_info_parameters) structure.

### `ulStatusFlags`

A bitwise OR combination of the values from the [DXGKMDT_OPM_STATUS](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/d3dkmdt/ne-d3dkmdt-_dxgkmdt_opm_status) enumeration that indicates the status of a protected output.

### `ulAvailableTVProtectionStandards`

A valid bitwise OR combination of values from the [DXGKMDT_OPM_PROTECTION_STANDARD](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/d3dkmdt/ne-d3dkmdt-_dxgkmdt_opm_protection_standard) enumeration that indicates the types of television signals that the physical connector that is associated with a protected output can carry.

### `ulActiveTVProtectionStandard`

A valid bitwise OR combination of values from the [DXGKMDT_OPM_PROTECTION_STANDARD](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/d3dkmdt/ne-d3dkmdt-_dxgkmdt_opm_protection_standard) enumeration that indicates the types of television signals that the physical connector that is associated with a protected output currently carries.

### `ulReserved`

Reserved. Must be set to zero.

### `ulAspectRatioValidMask1`

A mask value that indicates the valid bits in the following **ulAspectRatioData1** member.

### `ulAspectRatioData1`

32-bit data that indicates the aspect ratio value that is currently set for the active protection standard.

### `ulAspectRatioValidMask2`

A mask value that indicates the valid bitfields in the following **ulAspectRatioData2** member.

### `ulAspectRatioData2`

32-bit data for additional aspect ratio information that is used for specific protection standards. This data can be used to read End and Q0 values for EIA-608-B, or active format description for CEA-805-A Type B packets.

### `ulAspectRatioValidMask3`

A mask value that indicates the valid bitfields in the following **ulAspectRatioData3** member.

### `ulAspectRatioData3`

32-bit data for additional aspect ratio information that is used for specific protection standards. This data can be used to read End and Q0 values for EIA-608-B, or active format description for CEA-805-A Type B packets.

### `ulReserved2`

Reserved. Must be set to zero.

### `ulReserved3`

Reserved. Must be set to zero.

## See also

[DXGKMDT_OPM_RANDOM_NUMBER](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/d3dkmdt/ns-d3dkmdt-_dxgkmdt_opm_random_number)

[DXGKMDT_OPM_STATUS](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/d3dkmdt/ne-d3dkmdt-_dxgkmdt_opm_status)

[DxgkDdiOPMGetCOPPCompatibleInformation](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/dispmprt/nc-dispmprt-dxgkddi_opm_get_copp_compatible_information)