# RtlAddFunctionTable function

## Description

Adds a dynamic function table to the dynamic function table list.

## Parameters

### `FunctionTable` [in]

A pointer to an array of function entries. For a definition of the
**PRUNTIME_FUNCTION** type, see WinNT.h. For more information on runtime
function entries, see the calling convention documentation for the processor.

### `EntryCount` [in]

The number of entries in the *FunctionTable* array.

### `BaseAddress` [in]

The base address to use when computing full virtual addresses from relative virtual addresses of function
table entries.

#### - TargetGp [in]

The target global pointer. This is part of the Intel IPF calling convention. It is a pointer to a data
area in an image.

This parameter does not exist on x64.

## Return value

If the function succeeds, the return value is **TRUE**. Otherwise, the return value
is **FALSE**.

## Remarks

Function tables are used on 64-bit Windows to determine how to unwind or walk the stack. These tables are
usually generated by the compiler and stored as part of the image. However, applications must provide the
function table for dynamically generated code. For more information about function tables, see the architecture
guide for your system.

This function is useful for code that is generated from a template or generated only once during the life of
the process. For more dynamically generated code, use the
[RtlInstallFunctionTableCallback](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/winnt/nf-winnt-rtlinstallfunctiontablecallback)
function.

## See also

[RtlDeleteFunctionTable](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/winnt/nf-winnt-rtldeletefunctiontable)

[RtlInstallFunctionTableCallback](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/winnt/nf-winnt-rtlinstallfunctiontablecallback)