# RtlInstallFunctionTableCallback function

## Description

Adds a dynamic function table to the dynamic function table list.

## Parameters

### `TableIdentifier` [in]

The identifier for the dynamic function table callback. The two low-order bits must be set. For example,
*BaseAddress*|0x3.

### `BaseAddress` [in]

The base address of the region of memory managed by the callback function.

### `Length` [in]

The size of the region of memory managed by the callback function, in bytes.

### `Callback` [in]

A pointer to the callback function that is called to retrieve the function table entries for the functions
in the specified region of memory. For a definition of the
**PGET_RUNTIME_FUNCTION_CALLBACK** type, see WinNT.h.

### `Context` [in]

A pointer to the user-defined data to be passed to the callback function.

### `OutOfProcessCallbackDll` [in]

An optional pointer to a string that specifies the path of a DLL that provides function table entries that
are outside the process.

When a debugger unwinds to a function in the range of addresses managed by the callback function, it loads
this DLL and calls the **OUT_OF_PROCESS_FUNCTION_TABLE_CALLBACK_EXPORT_NAME**
function, whose type is **POUT_OF_PROCESS_FUNCTION_TABLE_CALLBACK**. For more
information, see the definitions of these items in WinNT.h.

## Return value

If the function succeeds, the return value is **TRUE**. If the function fails, the
return value is **FALSE**.

## Remarks

Function tables are used on 64-bit Windows to determine how to unwind or walk the stack. These tables are
usually generated by the compiler and stored as part of the image. However, applications must provide the function
table for dynamically generated code. For more information about function tables, see the architecture guide for
your system.

This function is useful for very dynamic code. The application specifies the memory range for the generated
code, but does not need to generate a table until it is needed by an unwind request. At that time, the system
calls the callback function with the *Context* and the control address. The callback
function must return the runtime function entry for the specified address. Be sure to avoid creating a deadlock
between the callback function and the code generator.

For code that is generated from a template or generated only once during the life of the process, use the
[RtlAddFunctionTable](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/winnt/nf-winnt-rtladdfunctiontable) function.

## See also

[RtlAddFunctionTable](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/winnt/nf-winnt-rtladdfunctiontable)

[RtlDeleteFunctionTable](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/winnt/nf-winnt-rtldeletefunctiontable)