# IBDAComparable::HashExactIncremental

## Description

\[The feature associated with this page, [Microsoft TV Technologies](https://learn.microsoft.com/previous-versions/windows/desktop/mstv/microsoft-tv-technologies-portal), is a legacy feature. Microsoft strongly recommends that new code does not use this feature.\]

This topic applies to Update Rollup 2 for Microsoft Windows XP Media Center Edition 2005 and later.

The **HashExactIncremental** method incrementally generates a hash code for all of the tuning properties of an object.

## Parameters

### `PartialResult` [in]

Specifies the intermediate hash code that is to be combined with the hash code that is generated by the method. Typically, this value was generated by a previous call to either **HashExactIncremental** or [HashExact](https://learn.microsoft.com/previous-versions/windows/desktop/api/tuner/nf-tuner-ibdacomparable-hashexact).

### `Result` [out]

Receives the result of the hash operation. This result is the hash code for the tuning properties of the object and its associated objects that are to be included in comparisons with other objects.

## Return value

If the method succeeds, it returns S_OK. If it fails, it returns an error code.

## Remarks

This method generates a hash code from the values of the tuning properties in the object that implements the **IBDAComparable** interface, and its associated objects.

Calling this method with a *PartialResult* value of 0 yields the same result as calling **HashExact**.

## See also

[HashExact](https://learn.microsoft.com/previous-versions/windows/desktop/api/tuner/nf-tuner-ibdacomparable-hashexact)

[IBDAComparable Interface](https://learn.microsoft.com/previous-versions/windows/desktop/api/tuner/nn-tuner-ibdacomparable)