# IPrintOemUIMXDC::AdjustImageCompression

## Description

The `IPrintOemUIMXDC::AdjustImageCompression` method allows an XPS filter pipeline driver to use UnidrvUI.dll or PS5UI.dll to support configuration of compression level for JPEG or PNG images.

## Parameters

### `hPrinter`

A handle to the printer that is currently being queried.

### `cbDevMode`

The size of the [DEVMODE](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/win32/api/wingdi/ns-wingdi-devmodew) structure, including appended data.

### `pDevMode`

A pointer to the DEVMODE structure that contains the current device settings.

### `cbOEMDM`

The number of bytes in the vendor-provided section of the DEVMODE structure.

### `pOEMDM`

A pointer to the data that is contained in the vendor portion of the DEVMODE structure that *pDevMode* points to.

### `pCompressionMode`

A pointer to the current compression level. *pCompressionMode* is an enum type specified in Mxdc.h.

## Return value

`AdjustImageCompression` returns S_OK if the method succeeds. Otherwise, this method should return E_NOTIMPL if the plug-in does not support the method, or any appropriate failure value if the plug-in cannot complete the operation. For more information, see the following Remarks section.

## Remarks

The `IPrintOemUIMXDC::AdjustImageCompression` method affects JPEG and PNG images that are generated by Microsoft XPS Document Converter (MXDC). The `IPrintOemUIMXDC::AdjustImageCompression` method does not affect the JPEG and PNG images that are sent directly by applications to GDI via the GDI JPEG/PNG image pass-through mechanism ([BMF_JPEG](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/win32/api/winddi/ns-winddi-devinfo), **BMF_PNG**).

The core drivers, UnidrvUI.dll and PS5UI.dll, do not modify the image compression settings. The plug-in, however, can change the value that is initially provided to the MXDC by the GDI print path.

The *pCompressionMode* parameter has one of the following predefined values.

| ENUM Type | Value | Meaning |
| --- | --- | --- |
| MXDC_IMAGETYPE_JPEGHIGH_COMPRESSION | 1 | Lowest quality and smallest file size |
| MXDC_IMAGETYPE_JPEGMEDIUM_COMPRESSION | 2 | Medium quality and medium file size |
| MXDC_IMAGETYPE_JPEGLOW_COMPRESSION | 3 | High quality and large file size |
| MXDC_IMAGETYPE_PNG | 4 | Highest quality and largest file size |

The *pCompressionMode* parameter is IN OUT. All other parameters for this function are input only.

If the plug-in cannot complete the operation, it should return an appropriate failure HRESULT, which causes the current print job to fail.