# WER_REPORT_METADATA_V2 structure

## Description

Contains information about an error report generated by [Windows Error Reporting](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/win32/api/_wer/) (WER).

## Members

### `Signature`

A structure containing the signature of the report. The signature consists of the event name and event parameters present.

### `BucketId`

A hash of the signature. Can be used to cross reference with other crash reports with the same signature (currently not implemented).

### `ReportId`

A locally unique identifier for the report.

### `CreationTime`

A UTC time stamp of when the report was created.

### `SizeInBytes`

The size (on disk) of the individual report and its constituent files. This value only counts files directly contained in a report.

### `ReportStatus`

The detailed status of the report. Use the ReportStatus decoder to track this bit-field.

### `ReportIntegratorId`

The integrator ID of the report.

### `NumberOfFiles`

The number of data files included in the report.

### `SizeOfFileNames`

The total size of the file name fields, in count of **WCHAR**s, including the terminating character for each name and one more at the end of the record.

### `FileNames`

A pointer to hold the names of the files included in the report. It is in the format: FileName001\0FileName002\0\FileName003\0\0.

### `CabID`

The cab identity value assigned by WER. Use this value to find the corresponding data in COSMOS/WER. Reports that have not uploaded successfully will not have this value.

## See also

[WerStoreQueryReportMetadataV2](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/desktop/api/werapi/nf-werapi-werstorequeryreportmetadatav2), [Windows Error Reporting](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/win32/api/_wer/)