# TfHandwritingFocusTargetResponse enumeration

## Description

Specifies how a client that implements the [IHandwritingInputRoutingCallback interface](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/win32/api/shellhandwriting/nn-shellhandwriting-ihandwritinginputroutingcallback) responds when the [FocusHandwritingTarget function](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/win32/api/shellhandwriting/nf-shellhandwriting-itfhandwritingsink-focushandwritingtarget) is called.

## Constants

### `TF_NO_HANDWRITING_TARGET`

A valid target for handwriting wasn't found and the system should not attempt default targeting.

Handwriting is abandoned and all pointer input processed for it is sent to the target application.

### `TF_HANDWRITING_TARGET_FOCUSED`

Focus is set as requested and handwriting recognition can commence.

### `TF_HANDWRITING_TARGET_FOCUSED_NO_CORRECTIONS`

Focus is set as requested and handwriting recognition can commence, but the system should not show the handwriting correction experience.

Handwriting correction UI is displayed when the user taps on text generated by ink recognition and one or more high probability alternative candidates exist (such as "help" for "hello") from which the user can select to replace the generated text. Specifying this field enables applications to provide their own correction experience instead.

### `TF_PERFORM_SYSTEM_TARGETING`

A valid target for handwriting was found but focus is not set and the system should attempt default targeting.

## Remarks

## See also